Next up is the header,
the banner, and the tour styling.
By the time we're done with this section,
as you see here in this screenshot,
by the way these are all clickable so
you can open them up in a new window and
zoom in on them.
By the time we're done with this,
we'll have our header styled,
we'll have our banner styled, and
we'll get our tour dates sort of
basically in place here, okay?
So that is where we are headed with this.
All right, so go ahead and
open up your CodePen for this.
This is the easy design header and
banner styling, or
you can continue working in
the CodePen you already have.
Make sure you fork it to your account.
And then we can get busy styling here.
So the first thing that I'm
going to do is I'm going to do
a little trick that a lot of you
may not even be familiar with.
What we have written so far for our CSS,
this is what we wrote back in Chapter 2.
It's just copied and pasted right here.
This is kind of like our base styling,
and as you can already tell,
we're already up to 137 lines of CSS.
[LAUGH] We haven't even, like,
really gotten started with this.
So, I'm going to show
you this little trick.
What I'm going to do is I'm gonna
put around this at layer base.
And we're gonna open our curly
bracket here on line one,
we're gonna scroll all the way
to the end of our CSS, and
we're gonna put in another
curly bracket here at the end.
And then you can say format CSS,
it'll clean up any formatting
issues that you have.
And now what that will do for us is we can
collapse all of that CSS just like that.
[LAUGH] That's our base styling, okay?
If you're not familiar with Layer, these
are actually used as part of the cascade.
You can have unnamed layers, you can have
layers with names is what we have here.
We can specify in what order we want
the layers to apply to our design.
I talk about all of this in my
intermediate CSS course here at
Frontend Masters.
We are not going to use
layers in the cascade,
we are just using them
as a grouping mechanism.
So I wouldn't necessarily recommend that
you use it this way in your production
code it's more for teaching purposes and
that's why we're doing this,
just to make our code
a little bit easier to read.
Okay, so to this we'll add some new CSS so
I'm going to make another layer and
I said this is like header and
banner styling so we'll call it header.
Just header and
then inside of this we'll put in our
styling it pertains to that header and
the banner.
Now, when I start putting let's
see styling right here on
the webpage at what dimensions of
the screen is it going to apply?
>> All dimensions.
>> All of them.
All of them, right?
So in other words mobile tablet and
desktop.
So when we start adding additional
styling here we're really thinking
about our mobile dimension right now.
So we're going to work on just styling
the mobile dimension and then we'll start
adding media queries that will allow us to
make our changes for tablet and desktop.
Make sense?
Okay, great.
So here at the header,
let's start with our wrapper.
And we can say something
like max-width 375 pixels.
Okay?
And if you're ever not
sure what's going on,
what is the thing I tell you to do always?
The world's greatest debugging tool
when it comes to your CSS border.
Border one pixel solid.
Usually I do red, but since we're on
a green background, let's do white.
That'll always put a border on something
so you can see exactly what's going on,
because if you can't see it,
you can't style it.
Very, very important.
We can't see what's going on here.
We cannot style it.
I think right now, in my base layer I
may have the image style commented out.
Yes, a temporary comment right here.
So if your image style in the base
is probably not uncommented
that's great I'm going to make
sure that works that will
put all of my images right inside
of my wrapper, see how I did that?
>> So
did you uncomment the temporary comment?
>> I uncommented the temporary comment,
correct.
Okay.
Anybody happy with that?
>> Yeah, it looks great.
I think we're done.
>> Awesome, yeah Mark.
>> Why pixels instead of rem here?
You absolutely can do this in rems.
That wouldn't be a problem at all.
What I find is, again,
for teaching purposes,
I find when I get to these larger numbers,
people get very confused.
And the pixels are a better
thing to use for that reason.
Also when you go to your media queries,
the rems and
pixels are pretty well interchangeable.
If you take a look at a lot of the way
a lot of people write their CSS,
they use pixels in the media queries and
they use Rems elsewhere.
But you can absolutely convert this
to rems and do that if you wish.
Not a problem at all.
>> You ever use CH as a method
of measurement especially in
Mac's with circumstances
>> I have never used CH but
that means nothing is neither here nor
there.
Whatever works for you,
I think is an awesome choice.
>> Your question about your
developing like mobile first?
>> Yeah.
>> In Chrome they have the mobile, they
have tools where you can see it and for
different dimensions.
Do you like to just resize it
to kind of look like a mobile or
are there dimensions that
you like to style it to?
>> Yeah, so what are the right dimensions?
Depends on your design, okay?
So you just sort of look at your
design and see what looks good.
Often your designer was gonna give
you the dimensions to use anyway.
[LAUGH] Designer gave me
the dimensions to use here.
That's how we wound up with these.
But if you wind up ever styling
on your own, do the thing.
Do the thing and figure out where
it looks good for you, right?.
If stuff starts rapping at
a certain point in time,
that's a good place to
sometimes put a media query.
Makes sense?.
Okay.
Okay, this is great.
I would like it centered.
How can I center this on the page?
My wrapper.
>> Flexbox.
>> Flexbox is one possibility.
What would be another
possibility that's even easier?
>> We can do margin auto.
>> We can do margin.
So if we add to this margin, 0 auto.
Okay, two numbers.
So the first number refers to the top and
the bottom.
The second number or keyword in this
case refers to the left and the right.
So what auto is doing is it's looking
at the width of the page relative to
the width of the wrapper
which is 375 pixels.
It takes whatever space is left over,
divides it by two and
sticks it on the left and the right side.
So it's centered.
Makes sense?
Awesome.
Okay, so let's move on to our header.
The actual header itself.
It is kind of large,
[LAUGH] so let's give this
a little bit of breathing room, all right?
First of all, it's smashed up
against the top of the page,
so let's remedy that by giving it
some padding on the top, three rem.
Let's give it some padding on the bottom,
like two REM.
Yeah, you could write that in
one declaration if you prefer.
Whatever works for you is fine.
So that'll give us a little bit
of space between our logo and and
the image that comes after, okay?
And then we could say header image.
So remember, this is all just
coming from our HTML here.
We have our image.
The image is right here
on line 3 in our HTML.
It's inside of header.
So we have here a descendant class.
Images inside of header
are going to do what?
They are going to have
a max width of a 150pixels.
Why because the designer said so.
Right, what else should we do there?
>> Center.
>> Let's center the image, yeah?
Okay, what kind of centering should
I use and where should I put it?
Anybody say we should use Flexbox?
Could do that, right?
We have parents and
children here, header A.
That's one way to do it.
There's an easier way.
Images in line.
So all we need to do really
here is say text, align center.
Boom.